# Assignment 4: Secure Authentication

## A:

### Task 1

* We considered all bullet points and are used in creating variations of dictionary words. Dictionary words are read from "Top30ReusedPasswords.txt."
* All possible combinations from top 30 is found in "elcp1.txt"

### Task 2/3

* We have a create account GUI (found in CreateAccount.java) which asks for all personal info found in the bullet points
* Sends these personal information points to 'PasswordTester.java' that produces many possible passwords. 
    * When asked to create a password, if a user inserts a password generated by the 'PasswordTester' file, the user is not allowed to use said password
    * some variations of these are:
        * capitalizing first letter
        * not allowing concatenation of personal information
        * repeating passwords
        * common insertions
        * common replacements

## B:

* Salt.java contains the methods to create a user-specific salt. This specific salt is then stored in 'salts.txt' which is associated with a username
* the above salt is then concatenated with a password and this concatenation is hashed. This password is stored in 'passwords.txt' associated with a username
* To produce examples of passwords.txt and salts.txt, run the main function in 'InitializeFiles.java'

## C:

* This login interface is found in 'CreateAccount.java.' 
* using the password and salts found in their respective files, the input password is salted with the user-specific 
salt and compared with the salted password stored in passwords.txt
* if a user inputs incorrect passwords 3 times, the user is locked out for 2^0 minutes. After this lockout, 
the user is allowed another 3 attempts. If the user fails these three as well, he or she is locked out for 2^1 minutes. This lockout pattern 
continues until the user finally enters the correct password. Upon the correct input, the lockout time will be reset.

## Resources

Commonly used password phrases was pulled from https://www.passwordrandom.com/most-popular-passwords and passwords using just numbers were excluded. 
Character replacements could be read directly from the text file if needed.
We're limiting the number of character replacements, because the word 'some' had a total of 1937694 permutations under the rules we defined. 